GENERAL FEATURES FOR VILLAS Domconst
Effective August, 2023
1. Light fixtures that are included in the construction are the pool lights, the lights built into the wood valence of the bathroom mirrors, under cabinet lighting in the kitchen, and the recessed lights above the outdoor bar (if a bar is in the plan). We will install basic porcelain lamps. The purchase and installation of all other light fixtures are the responsibility of the homeowner.
2. All villas are fitted with a 'hot water' on demand heater, fueled by propane. One filled propane tank will be delivered to your villa prior to the end of construction so we can ensure the hot water system operates properly. The cost of the propane and cylinder is part of the 'start-up' package (3000$). This necessary 'Start-up Package' also includes the gardening and pool equipment that will be required to care for your property. Having this equipment on hand as soon as construction is complete is most important for your pool and garden staff/administration to begin maintenance of your property.
3. Water supplied from the  cistern  to  the  house  is  pumped	via a
submersible pump located in the cistern.
4. A  fiberglass  pressure tank  for each villa  is  located  in  the technical
room.
5. There will be one 10,000BTU air conditioner unit for bedrooms.
6. There will be a ceiling fan with 1 light in living room, dining room, and the covered terrace.
7. Generally, one color of ceramic tile is selected for the floors and will continue through the entire house, including bedrooms, bathrooms. 
8. The standard height of the interior and exterior doors is 210cm.
9. All windows  will  have removable  screens  and  sliding  doors will  have sliding screens. The aluminum windows and sliding door frames  are available in white. The glass is 5mm thick that is available in two  colors.
10. The glass in the bathroom windows will be hammered glass for privacy.
11. Metal doors are standard in  exterior palapa  doors (including  service, laundry, pool bathrooms and storage rooms) as exposure to  rain and sun will damage wood doors.
12. All exterior doors will have a door sweep, (bottom weather strip).
13. All interior doors will have doorstops. Bedroom doors will have a key
lock and bathroom doors will have a privacy lock (unless specified).
14. The standard paint for the interior is a premium quality acrylic paint  from the Pintura Tropical Plus
15. All  villas  come  with  a  fully   landscaped  garden.  Size  and  quantity  of plants and trees vary depending on the villa  and lot  size. (the cost  for this is built into the budget for each  villa) In this  tropical climate  the  young plants  will quickly grow  to fill in your garden.  Temporary bamboo screens will be installed to provide privacy around  the pool and pool terrace for the first 6-9 months.
16. Exterior walls are finished with special product that  features a  textured surface. This material has an elastic property which expands  and contracts with the change in temperature.
17. The car park area, front entrance pathway will be covered in cement  pavers. (unless specified in the purchase price quote)  For  two  bedroom  villas, 1  vehicle parking   space  and one golf cart parking space is standard. For villas with more than 2 bedrooms, 2  parking spaces is recommended.
18. Villas with a flat roof will be finished (sealed) with 'impermeabilizante'.  Routine inspection of the roof is the responsibility of the home owner  to ensure leaves or other debris are not obstructing  the drains, and  that  there   are  no  cracks  in   the   joints  that  may  be  caused  by  the intense sun.
19. Exterior  and  interior  handrails  and/or   railings  for  terraces  made  of galvanized painted metal.
20. Privately  owned  homes   come   with   a   standard   lockset   with  key. Homeowners of privately rented or privately owned villas that  want an electronic key card system will be invoiced for the  mechanism and installation.

BATHROOMS
21. Chrome bathroom accessories; paper dispenser, towel	bar, etc. are included.
22. Standard bathroom countertop material is Crema Marfil. (engineered  marble)
23. Lavatory and shower faucets are single lever style in chrome and carry
a 1-year warranty.
24. Standard shower faucets with a 1-year warranty, will  have  an  exposed valve, with a hand held shower head with a hose and an  adjustable wall bracket.
25. All toilets, sinks (bidets & bathtubs if in the plan) will be white. The
standard toilets are 2 piece, 6 litre models.
26. Shower enclosures for all indoor shower areas will have 210cm  tempered glass panel. The entrance to the shower area will have a  small step-over wall. (unless specified)
27. Shower drains will be stainless steel grid style.
28. Bathtub enclosures will have a combination of  tiled walls and fixed
glass tub panel/s.
29. Frameless mirrors above vanities  will  have 2  built-in  lights  (3 or  more lights for master bathroom, 1 light for a 2pc. bathroom) In some  cases the number of lights will be more or less depending on the width  of the mirror.
30. Bathroom walls are covered in ceramic tiles up to the ceiling in houses  with flat roofs. Half bathrooms such as pool bathrooms  or  power  rooms will have tile up to aprox. 1 meter above the floor.
31. Bathroom vanity countertop  height is  36”. Depending   on  the  space available, some vanities may or may not have drawers.
KITCHENS
32.	Please provide information as to which appliances (with dimensions) you intend to purchase in a timely manner. Your kitchen and laundry room plan must be designed to accommodate your appliances prior to the start of construction. (customerloyalty@constructoradomino.in) Appliance installation is not included in the construction of your villa.
33.	All cabinet doors and drawers will be equipped with "standard" hinges and drawers. If you want the cabinet doors and drawers to be equipped with "slow closing" hinges, then the mechanism and installation will be billed. The base cabinets (including the counteк top) are 91cm high. Upper cabinets are 72cm high and 30cm deep with on e shelf. 
34. There will be a minimum of one bank of drawers in the kitchen.
35. There are two cabinet door styles: flat panel and shaker panel.
36. A double undermount stainless steel sink in kitchen and a single undermount stainless steel for the bar is standard. (if a bar is in  plan)
37. The extractor fan or combination microwave/extractor fan above the
stove in the kitchen will be vented outdoors, (appliance not provided)
38. Under-cabinet lighting is included in new construction.
39. Kitchen, bathroom and closets are  made with  MDF  cabinets.  Door  and drawer fronts will be either MDF or solid wood depending what  color is chosen.
40. Quartz countertops are standard in the kitchen and outdoor bar, (if a
bar is in the floor plan).
41. Outdoor bars will have 3 lights in the ceiling above the countertop.
42. The number of lights outlets above the island of the kitchen will vary,
depending on the model of the villa.
43. Any kitchen planned with an island countertop will have a 6" overhang
on the non-working side of the counter top.
POOLS
44. All pools are set up as chlorine system. Chlorine added to a new pool by the builder is only sufficient to maintain water quality for a short period. Chlorine pools can be converted to a salt water system 6 weeks after the pool has been filled for the first time. The salt- water chlorinator is an upgrade. The cost for the bags of salt are the homeowner's responsibility.
45. Pool  decks  will  be  finished  in  30cm  x  30cm  the  coralina  tile with
the coralina bullnose edge around the pool.
46. Pool terraces are finished with 30 x  30  the  coralina  tile  and  a  rounded bullnose pool border. Coralina is a porous, natural coral stone  found in the Dominican Republic. Coralina is a porous material. Over  time, wear & tear, power washing or use of harsh cleaners can damage  the surface. The surface may need to be polished and resealed  periodically. Maintenance of the coralina  surfaces is the responsibility  of the homeowner.
47. Every villa will have one pool shower with cold water only.
48. Standard color for pool plaster is off-white with mosaic  tiles  around  the top. The steps leading into the pool and the edge of a shallow area  will have mosaic tiles inserted into the steps. (safety feature)
WARRANTIES
Domino.in shall be liable for structural defects in the construction work of  the house for a term of five (5) years as of delivery, with everything else  being covered by manufacturer's warranty. Roofs will have a five year  warranty.
The   warranty   on   the   landscaping   is   subject   to   proper   care   and
maintenance and weather conditions.
Please inform us if you have a decorator who will need access to your villa  prior to your arrival to take possession? Without your authorization, or in  the company of a POA, no one will have access to your villa until you  personally take possession.
We understand that you may not be here immediately to receive your villa,  but it’s important to commence pool  and garden care as soon as your  villa  is complete in order to avoid damage to the pool surface and overgrowth  in the garden.
In a tropical climate, buildings must have regular ventilation and cleaning
to prevent problems related to insects and humidity.
We encourage you to meet with Ramon, our Owner’s Liaison, about pool,  garden, housekeeping and maintenance services. He can direct you to  reputable service providers:
+1 (829) 970-6214
If you intend to rent your villa, Juana Iris Martínez +1 (849) 260-5123 can
also recommend a rental management company in the area.



